1.Create a Linux User with non-interactive shell
Solution:
ssh banner@172.16.238.12
useradd username -s /sbin/nologin


2.Linux file permissions
There are new requirements to automate a backup process that was performed manually by the xFusionCorp Industries system admins team earlier.
To automate this task, the team has developed a new bash script xfusioncorp.sh. They have already copied the script on all required servers,
however they did not make it executable on one the app server i.e App Server 2 in Stratos Datacenter.
Please give executable permissions to /tmp/xfusioncorp.sh script on App Server 2. Also make sure every user can execute it.

Solution:
ssh steve@172.16.238.11
cd /tmp/
sudo chmod +rx xfusioncorp.sh


3.Linux time zone setting
During the daily standup, it was pointed out that the time zone across Nautilus Application Servers in Stratos Datacenter doesn't
match with that of the local datacenter's time zone, which is Australia/Melbourne.
Correct the mismatch.

Solution:
Timedatectl status (Shows the current timezone details)
Timedatactl list-timezones (Will show list of all timezones currently set)
Timedatectl set-timezone ___________ provide the timezone which is the reference (eg:Ausralia/Melbourne)
Timedatectl status (To check if the change has been done)
Also ssh into the app server as pointed or perform action on all app servers as needed.
Ssh Tony@stapp01 or app server 2 accordingly.


4. Selinux Installation
The xFusionCorp Industries security team recently did a security audit of their infrastructure and came up with ideas to improve
the application and server security. They decided to use SElinux for an additional security layer. They are still planning how they will implement it;
however, they have decided to start testing with app servers, so based on the recommendations they have the following requirements:
Install the required packages of SElinux on App server 3 in Stratos Datacenter and disable it permanently for now; it will be enabled after making some
required configuration changes on this host. Don't worry about rebooting the server as there is already a reboot scheduled for tonight's maintenance window.
Also ignore the status of SElinux command line right now; the final status after reboot should be disabled.

Solution:
Selinux – Security enhanced Linux
Security-Enhanced Linux (SELinux) is a security architecture for Linux® systems that allows administrators to have more control over who can access the system.
Ssh username@appserver3
Ssh banner@stapp03
Sudo Yum install Selinux* or sudo su- and then yum install Selinux*
Sestatus (It will show the status of Selinux)
Then
Cat /etc/Selinux/config | grep SELINUX
Then with vim editor make it disabled and save the file
And check the Selinux status again.

5. Linux SSH Authentication
The system admins team of xFusionCorp Industries has set up some scripts on jump host that run on regular intervals
and perform operations on all app servers in Stratos Datacenter. To make these scripts work properly we need to make sure
the thor user on jump host has password-less SSH access to all app servers through their respective sudo users
(i.e tony for app server 1). Based on the requirements, perform the following:
Set up a password-less authentication from user thor on jump host to all app servers through their respective sudo users.

Solution:
This can be done by generating RSA token
Whoami
Ssh-keygen -t rsa (This will generate the rsa token)
Ssh-copy-id tony@stapp01 (This will help us configure the ssh connection for app server 1)
Ssh tony@stapp01
Whoami
Also likewise perform this for all 3 users of 3 app servers.
Ssh-copy-id steve@stapp02
Ssh steve@stapp02
Ssh-copy-id banner@stapp03
Ssh banner@stapp03


6.Linux User Expiry
A developer john has been assigned Nautilus project temporarily as a backup resource. As a temporary resource for this project,
we need a temporary user for john. It’s a good idea to create a user with a set expiration date so that the user won't be able to access servers beyond that point.
Therefore, create a user named john on the App Server 3. Set expiry date to 2021-04-15 in Stratos Datacenter. Make sure the user is created as per standard and is in lowercase.

Solution:
ssh banner@stapp03
sudo useradd john
sudo chage -l john
sudo chage -E 2021-04-15 john

7.Linux User Without Home
The system admins team of xFusionCorp Industries has set up a new tool on all app servers, as they have a requirement
to create a service user account that will be used by that tool. They are finished with all apps except for App Server 2 in Stratos Datacenter.
Create a user named jim in App Server 2 without a home directory.

Solution:
ssh steve@stapp02
enter the password corresponding to steve
sudo su (to change to root)
useradd -M jim
ll
id jim

8.Linux Services
As per details shared by the development team, the new application release has some dependencies on the back end.
There are some packages/services that need to be installed on all app servers under Stratos Datacenter. As per requirements please perform the following steps:
a. Install cups package on all the application servers.
b. Once installed, make sure it is enabled to start during boot.

Solution:
ssh tony@stapp01
enter the password
sudo su -
yum install cups -y
systemctl status cups
systemctl start cups
systemctl enable cups
systemctl status cups
This needs to be done on all 3 app servers
